Okay, so
that was just handling user input.
That's fine.
We're all done with that.
Let's go onto component composition.
So just kind of like a rule of thumb,
something like this where I'm
rendering out a pet in a list of them.
This is a good kind of
place where it makes sense.
Maybe I should extract in
a component out of this.
Like, for example, this results thing
where I have a list of pets and
that renders out like a bunch of pet
components, that could be reusable, right?
I could use that here in the results page.
I could use that in an admin page
where I'm just showing a list of pets.
Basically, it's something that
you give it a list of pets and
it displays a bunch of
nice looking pets for you.
That seems like it's kind of a good
candidate for a reusable component, right?
So I'm trying to help you figure out
when should I pull things out and
make them their own component.
When something should be individually
testable, or individually usable, or
if something's just getting too big, like
this search params page, like 90 lines.
That's pretty long for a React component.
I'm not gonna give you any sort of
ceiling, but if you have a 300 line or
a 500 line React component,
it's probably too long.
There's probably candidates in there for
stuff for you to pull out.
Smaller, single purpose
components are easier to read,
they're easier to understand, and
when you can do it, you should do it.
Even if it's not reusable,
smaller things are easier to understand,
easier to wrap your mind around,
easier to share.
So, this is a good thing here.
So we're gonna pull this out and
we're gonna make a results page.
So I'm gonna make a new file here,
put in my source directory, and
it's gonna be called Results.jsx.
It's gonna import Pet from ./Pet.
Const results, all it's gonna do is
it's gonna take in the props, and
I'm gonna pull out the pets
part of the props.
That's what this is.
This is just destructuring.
I'm getting, this is expecting a prop
called pets, and it's gonna pull that out.
So that's what this is.
This is going to return a div
with the className = search.
And if there's no pets length,
yeah, pets has no length.
So we're gonna do what's
called the ternary.
So if I have an array of length zero,
it's just gonna say in an h1,
No Pets Found.
Otherwise, It's gonna do pets.map.
And this is gonna be a pet component, and
then we're just gonna give
it all of our things.
Now, I'm gonna show you a little
thing that you'll see, and
I don't want you to do it, but
I'm gonna show you how to do it, ...pet.
And then, you'll need a key.
So key=(pet.id) I don't like this,
but it works.
So let's talk about what it is, and why
I think you should do it the other way.
This is called the spread operator,
which is it's not precisely the same as
the JavaScript one, but you can think
of it as functionally equivalent.
You're basically saying that I have
a bag of properties here inside of pet.
I want you to spread them out over as
if I had done animal = pet.animal,
key = pet.id, name = pet.name,
breed = pet.breed, right?
All of those individually,
you're just saying spread this out,
which is actually literally
what we're about to do.
So why don't I like this?
It's very implicit.
You're basically saying
pass everything along.
Do I want to pass everything along?
I don't know.
Maybe today I do, but tomorrow, maybe
we're gonna add more things from the API.
This is better to be explicit that
this component expects these things,
and therefore, is receiving these things.
Cuz sometimes you'll be looking at
the processes like where the hell did this
come from, right?
And if you're just doing
the spread operator everywhere,
I think there's some performance
implication, but who cares?
What's more important here is
that you're being explicit like,
the pet component expects this, therefore,
I am giving the pet component this, right?
It makes the contractor explicit.
The reason why I show that to you is
you're never really gonna end up at
a company where someone
thinks it's a good idea.
And you're gonna go up just like,
I know that this is a bad idea and
that you are full of crap.
Cuz that is how to be a good co-worker.
[LAUGH] Someone's looking at this like,
I'd never wanna work with Brian.
That's probably smart.
images=pet.images.
Okay, so one thing I will say where is
appropriate to do what I told you not to.
If you have a component that is meant to
be a total pass through component where
it's not meant to do anything.
All it's meant to do is take in
something and then apply some effect and
pass it onward, and it doesn't actually
need to know anything about that.
By all means,
use the spread operator, right?
Cuz you're basically explicitly
saying this component does not
care what's passing through it.
That is totally okay.
And by the way,
if you ever use TypeScript,
which you will in intermediate React,
you have to do it this way, anyway.
So it's just good to get in that habit
because everyone's using TypeScript
these days.
All right, location pet.city, pet.state.
Okay, and then, down here at the bottom,
make sure as always you export results,
export default Results.
Cool, search params, come back here where
you had this pets thing here, put Results,
and we have to pass it in pets, right?
So I deleted that pets.map business from
search.params and I passed in pets here.
And then you can get rid of pet up here,
cuz we're not using that directly
in search params anymore, and
then make sure you're importing
results from results, okay?
So, if we have done our job correctly,
it should look something like this.
The reason why it's styled differently is
we gave it a div with the search class,
which gave it some style.
And now if I put some random stuff in here
and submit, you'll get a No Pets Found,
which is a nice way of
letting a user know.
I wouldn't search for it,
I didn't find anything.
This is what you get.
I know some of you are also thinking like,
location doesn't work super well.
That's because it doesn't.
It's just doing some
basic pattern matching.
I did not put elastic search here or
anything like that.
So just be aware that even though you're
searching for Seattle, Washington,
it's just doing basically text search.